## Introduction {.page_break_before}

 The threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) is an oft-studied organism for understanding the independent evolution of similar traits in similar environments.
 This species exhibits marked differences in marine-freshwater, lake-stream, and benthic-limnetic ecotypes4.
 This study will focus on the benthic-limnetic axis, using samples from a long-term evolutionary experiment currently in-process studying divergent populations of limnetic and benthic stickleback within the Kenai peninsula of Alaska (USA).
 This project, the Forward In Time Natural Experimental Study of Selection (FITNESS), aims to study the predictability and repeated of evolution.
 Two pools of sticklebacks — one made from four source populations of limnetic and four source populations of benthic sticklebacks — have been placed into eight destination lakes, four of which are small and benthic and four of which are large and limnetic.
 These new populations have been sampled every year in order to track the genotypic and phenotypic trajectories of these introduced populations.
 Understanding the initial variation in the source populations is essential to this endeavor, as this initial variation would be expected to reflect which phenotypes are associated with each ecotype under study.
 Among these and other bony fish, the internal hyoid arch-branchial arch complex is an important structure implicated in diet and feeding ecology.
 The pharyngobranchial bones at the posterior margin of this complex (and their corresponding ceratobranchials) aid in dietary processing.
 The "gill rakers" on the ceratobranchials and the "internal jaws" of the are strong indicators of different foraging styles, and have been shown to be related to genotypic and phenotypic changes in different species, and even among different populations.
 These structures are, however, difficult to study without full cranial dissection and distortion of the branchial anatomy.

- Embedded into [Alaska Stickleback Restoration Project](https://alaskastickleback.com/), [Genomics axis](https://alaskastickleback.com/genomics) where Katie Peichel, Ben Sulser and Sheila Christen are affiliated.
- Why are we studying what we are studying in these fish?

## Micro-computed tomography

X-ray microtomography is an indispensable tool to gain non-destructive insights into the inner structure of highly diverse samples, namely for specimens studied in the biomedical sciences [@doi:10.1186/s12915-020-0753-2].
Microtomographic imaging is ideally suited to non-destructively assess the morphology of different fish species, large and small [@doi:10.1093/iob/obad008], including the internal anatomy.
While these structures can be rendered by-hand by a skilled investigator, the time and cost required per-specimen is inefficient for the scale required via eco-evolutionary study.
This project aims to address these gaps, demonstrating a novel pipeline for rendering and auto-splitting of a multispecimen scan for mass sampling, creating a dataset with consistent parameters that can be fed to donwstream machine-learning techniques [Biomedisa] to aid in the segmentation of individual bony structures in each scan.
Once a Biomedisa model is trained, the entire pipeline runs from multi-specimen input to rendered structures for each specimen in a fraction of the time and resources used in traditional analysis.

<!---
Do we have to give a bit of background on uCT imaging, e.g. write about resolution, staining, etc? 

---I don't think so? Some of this can be offloaded in to materials and methods, I think
--->
