## Results {.page_break_before}

### microCT data

<!-- Should the microCT "result" (numbers, etc.) be shown/noted in the Materials&Methods section instead of here? -->

- We actually scanned N=216 fishes (unique Fish IDs)
- The total scanning duration was 18 days, 12 hours and 6 minutes
- In total, we acquired 158444 projections
- These were reconstructed into a total of 177749 reconstructions
  Which is about 4040 files per scan (N=44)
- ~44 GB of `.zarr` files, ~64 GB of `.nrrd` files

### Fish separation

Our method reproducibly extracts each of the 6 fish scanned simultaneously in one scan.
The custom-made sample holder aligns the single fish in the vertical axis around the rotation axis of the tomographic scan.
The extraction based on the MIP image along the rotation axis is completely automated and very robust, since the detected fish 'regions' do not overlap in the resulting image.

Depending on the available machine it would even not be possible to load the full stack of each scan into a software to manually perform the cropping, such as Fiji [@doi:10.1038/nmeth.2019].
Large stacks of images (in other words larger than the RAM of the available machine) can be loaded as 'virtual stacks', but o manually crop the region of each fish from the large scan with the [Crop (3D)](https://www.longair.net/edinburgh/imagej/three-pane-crop/) function, one needs to load the full dataset.
Since one (excemplary dataset (Sticklebucket_10)) is 7 GB on disk and reported as being 35.4 GB when loaded in Fiji, using the 3D cropping function directly is not even possible.

<-- Manual ROI-ing in Dragonfly? -->

Cropping would thus be a two-step manual process, e.g. croppin the full dataset loaded as '[virtual stack](https://imagej.net/ij/docs/guide/146-8.html#sub:Virtual-Stacks)' and then cropping it down further before writing out the cropped stack.
For each encompassing scan this would need to be repeated 6 times (for *each* of the six fish in each of the encompassing scans).
In addition, this manual process is not reproducible since it is a manual/visual process.

<-- In addition, we write log files of the cropping, e.g. process *can* be checked after the fact manually -->

Algorithmically/automaticaly cropping the large datasets based on the axial MIP image leads to both reproducible cropped regions and efficiently uses the operator time, namely *no* operator time.

### Analysis

- 3D shape variation on internal pharyngobranchial bone.
  Only possible to get this information in 3D.
