## Discussion {.page_break_before}

### Pipeline and efficiency

Once all components of the pipeline are combined, running a simple script enables automatic reconstruction, thresholding, and segmentation of stickleback specimens.
All automated pipeline steps are substantially faster than equivalent manual processing by an expert operator, with minimal active user input.
This reproducible pipeline allows for high-throughput sampling and population-scale analysis of stickleback specimens.

The imaging and separation step is easy to generalize to either other micro-CT setups or other species/specimen.
As long as the specimen show up as distint blobs in the MIP (see Figure @fig:labels) our pipeline can reproducibly separate these blobs into cropped dataset for any further processing, enabling a general, reproducible and high-throughput micro-CT workflow in biology and many other fields.

### Findings from Ceratobranchial Analysis

The first and second gill rakers differ remarkably in morphology, size, and breadth, suggesting that these structures may respond differently to shifts in diet---even within the same feeding apparatus.
CB1 showed statistically significant differences based on linear and pairwise analyses (and PC4, accounting for 4.33% of the variation, appears to capture these differences; see supplementary figures).
However, we caution that the greater number of lakes and specimens available for this study may contribute to these patterns, as the two groups exhibited statistically different variances.
This pipeline will allow for more extensive analysis from future sampling years to confirm these findings.

Within CB2, limnetic fish (and particularly those from South Rolly lake) appear to have narrower, less keeled bones than benthic fish.
The muscles that attach to the ceratobranchials (*m. adductor branchialis*, *m. abductor filament*, and *m. obliquus ventralis*) are attached along the lateral surfaces of these bones.
The increased surface area observed in benthic fish may provide greater area for muscle attachment, which may enhance the ability of fish to abduct these structures during water filtration [@doi:10.1007/s10228-004-0251-5; @hdl:2268/14698].
While dietary analyses of these fish are still ongoing, these findings suggest that the South Rolly population may have unique dietary specializations and would be expected to feed differently than fish from the other lakes in this study.
In terms of reintroduction, populations from this lake might be expected to fare better than others in terms of limnetic specialization.
Indeed, fish with South Rolly heritage outperform Spirit lake fish in every transplant experiment in which both populations are included as a part of the FITNESS project [@doi:10.64898/2026.02.04.699496].

The different response of the first and second ceratobranchial raises the possibility of a modular response to dietary shifts within the branchial basket.
Studies treating the branchial basket as a single structure, focusing on the first ceratobranchial, or investigating external morphology might potentially miss significant changes in shape and size of these structures---and this pipeline provides a wealth of data with which to perform a follow-up study.

### Future improvements and issues

As with many multi-scan projects, the scanning parameters can be optimized individually for each scan but not for each individual specimen.
In addition, atypically large or dense specimens cause an issue for the holder and the reproducibility across scans.
As with most machine learning approaches, it is also important to ensure that the full range of variations across the entire dataset are represented in training to avoid erroneous segmentations.
